---
layout: post
title: Seminar 10
subtitle: Unit 10
categories: Seminar
tags: [seminar, unit]
---

##Seminar 10 - Part A.

<H2>Part A</H2>

<H3>Read Opara-Martins et al (2014) and Morrow et al (2021) and answer the following questions:</H3>

<p>What are some of the main vendor lock-in issues the authors identify? How would you mitigate them?</p>

<p>1) Issues: use of non-standadized applications, cuase interoperability between cloud providers.
 Mitigations: Make sure your applications and data are portable(Opara-Martins, J. el al. 2014 ) and use open standards, avoid proprietary technology such as vendor API's(CATSER AI. 2023) .
2) Change of product offerings  that no longer apply to your business but due to high cost and technical issues an easy move to another vendor  is too costly.
Mitigations: Ensure your SLA provides for your service requirements. ensure you research your cloud provider.
3) Contractual clauses that lock you  into long term and costs for storage or support you may not need.
Mitigations: Ensure your SLA provides for your service requirements.
4) License agreement under exclusive contract.
Mitigations: Ensure your SLA provides for your service requirements.</p>

<H3>What are some of the security concerns with the modern cloud? How can these be mitigated?</H3>
<p>
1) Use of public instances cause access to hackers to all companies using the instanace. Mitigation: 
2) Data being moved and stored across countries,. Data can be lost or lost during war or polictical take overs.  Ensure data keys are not stored in accessable sites or keepyour own codes.
3) Reliance on internet connectivity 
</p>