
layout: post
title: Seminar 2
subtitle: Answers to seminar 2 questions
categories: markdown
tags: [guide, markdown]



<H1>Seminar 2 - Activity </H1>
<p>
Read the Spears & Barki (2010) article then prepare answers to the following questions
  
How did the authors use both Qualitative and Quantitative assessment approaches? What benefits did each approach yield?

Yes- Qualitative assessments provided.  Not enough was known a priori (deduction based on theory only was not applied) about user participation to quatify user participation in context of SRM. therefore qualitative methods provided understanding of activities and behaviours that define user participation in context of SRM for regulatory compliance.
A process model was constructed by applying the three user participation theories by MArkus and Mao 2004.
Qualitative - methods used to test theorectical models derived from qualitative studies. thus combing both methods. this strenghtened the results and cross validation was done.

What do the authors list as the advantages of involving users in the risk management process?

Users were reported to have provided decision criteria or a reality check as input into control designs.
- At multiple companies, users were reported to be responsible for developing remediation plans for failed controls—in other words, determining how and when a control would be corrected. 
-user participation was found to be formalized and appeared to be centered on accountability for protecting financial information. Informants used the term accountability in two related ways: (1) formally assigned responsibility, and
(2) organizational expectation that a person in a particular role will be informed of and follow policy.

How will the lack of user access affect the risk assessment you will carry out as part of your assessment?

It have to be theorically based and experience based.

Will it affect the choice of Qualitative vs. Quantitative assessment methods you utilise?
Possibly, more qualitative based 

How might you mitigate any issues encountered?
based on standard controls and known mitigations for issues encounted. </p>


